# Classifying suspicious firms

Citation of Data
Hooda,Nishtha. (2018). Audit Data. UCI Machine Learning Repository. https://doi.org/10.24432/C5930Q.

## Introduction
Fraud is a major issue in the World today. The use of fraudulent practices by firms lead to severe grave consequences on the economy and the people in the society. Having the need to interact with firms on a daily basis, many people in the world have been victims of fraudulent firms. Auditing practices are responsible for detecting these suspicious firms. Audit is defined as the process of examining the financial records of any business to corroborate that their financial statements are in compliance with the standard accounting laws and principles (Hooda et al., 2018). However, although auditors are able to track a few down, not all fraudulent firms can be located. In this project, our team will be asking the question: “Can we use present and historical risk factors to determine if a firm can be labeled as a fraudulent risk or not?”

The data, stored as a CSV file, contains one year (2015-2016) exhaustive information on firms that is collected by the Auditor Office of India. The aim of this project is to use this data to develop a model which will help auditors by classifying and finding fraudulent firms.

A variety of risk factors are examined in order to reach a score of either 1 (fraudulent) or 0 (not fraudulent) for a firm. There are missing values in the dataset that will be corrected by tidying the data. The variables that we will be using in this project from our original data set are inherent risk, control risk, and audit risk. We choose these three risks because they are crucial in deciding whether a firm can be labeled as fraudulent or not. Inherent risk refers to the potential danger of inaccuracies or omissions in a financial statement arising from factors unrelated to a breakdown in internal controls. Control risk is the risk associated with the possibility that a significant error or fraudulent activity in a financial statement assertion, either on its own or when combined with other errors, may not be identified or stopped promptly by the internal control mechanisms of the company. A study by the American Accounting Association finds a strong relation between material weaknesses and the future status of a firm as a fraud. The study focuses mainly on issues within internal control that motivates to commit fraud (Donelson et al., 2017). Audit risk pertains to the likelihood that the auditor issues an incorrect audit opinion in cases where the financial statements contain substantial inaccuracies, meaning they do not accurately represent the financial position in accordance with the relevant financial reporting standards.

## Methods & Results

The variables we have chosen were control risk, audit risk, and inherent risk. From what we found, these variables are highly effective when used to compose a classifier in order to answer our question "Can we use present and historical risk factors to determine if a firm can be labelled as a fraudulent risk or not?" Our findings can help us conclude that yes we can use present and historical risk factors to determine if a firm can be labelled as a fraudulent risk or not. Our classifier has a 99.57% accuracy rate in predicting whether a firm is fraudulent or not. Using any other variables to train the classifier may have varying results.

Is this what we expected to find? Leaning towards yes but not entirely. We did expect to find that these variables are highly effective in predicting fraudulent firms since these are risk factors on how likely these firms would have internal/external issues. These risk factors are usually higher in firms that are deemed fraudulent as legitimate firms usually don't have a high risk factor. They are trying to legitimately make a profit without any issues which will cause the firms to have higher standards that will prevent these risks. Therefore, we can assume that more risks would likely result in more fraudulent firms which is exactly what our classifier proved to us. There is a correlation between the risks and they all have a positive trend. As the risk factors increase, there are more fraudulent firms, as seen in the graphs above in exploratory data analysis. However, the only reason we are not leaning toward a full yes is because of how well our classifier worked. Although we did expect such findings, we didn't expect it to work so well. Although this is a very small training sample and test sample, our classifier was able to have a 99.57% success rate. This success rate is fairly well and a classifier with this accuracy can be used to classify firms in real life and help audit agencies have an easier time separating firms from suspicious and not suspicious.

Our discovery could lead to new innovative research that allows other audit firms to develop classifiers as well as even use them for auditing purposes. With more training data and testing data, we can ensure high accuracy which can also help the government in designing ways to discover firms that are fraudulent. Perhaps, this could also be a starting point where other audit firms and companies can find other risk factors that can contribute to this classifier making it even more effective when using it in real-life applications. Due to the nature of fraudulent firms and the amount of money needed to discover all of them, it is not possible to shut down every fraudulent firm but it is possible for the public to identify them. With this classifier, it can be an open source project where people contribute to it and is easily accessible to the public. This will allow the public to easily discover if the firms they are using are fraudulent or not and it will significantly reduce the amount of people that fall victim to these firms.

With so many benefits, this leads us to ask ourselves, are there any predictors that could increase precision, recall, and accuracy at the same time? How can we make this tool more accessible to everyone? How can we put this to use on a greater scale?
